<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later -->
### Completing

complete (TAB)
 Attempt completion on the text before point. Bash tries the text as a variable (if it begins with $), username (if it begins with ~), hostname (if it begins with @), or command (including aliases and functions) in turn. If none produces a match, filename completion is attempted.

possible-completions (M-?)
 List the possible completions of the text before point.

insert-completions (M-*)
 Insert all completions of the text before point that would have been generated by possible-completions.

menu-complete
 Like complete, but replaces the word to be completed with a single match from the list of possible completions. Repeated execution steps through the list, inserting each match in turn. At the end of the list, the bell is rung (subject to the bell-style setting) and the original text is restored. An argument of n moves n positions forward in the list; a negative argument moves backward. Intended to be bound to TAB, but unbound by default.

menu-complete-backward
 Identical to menu-complete, but moves backward through the list of possible completions, as if menu-complete had been given a negative argument. Unbound by default.

delete-char-or-list
 Deletes the character under the cursor if not at the beginning or end of the line (like delete-char). If at the end of the line, behaves identically to possible-completions. Unbound by default.

complete-filename (M-/)
 Attempt filename completion on the text before point.

possible-filename-completions (C-x /)
 List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a filename.

complete-username (M-~)
 Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a username.

possible-username-completions (C-x ~)
 List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a username.

complete-variable (M-$)
 Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a shell variable.

possible-variable-completions (C-x $)
 List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a shell variable.

complete-hostname (M-@)
 Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a hostname.

possible-hostname-completions (C-x @)
 List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a hostname.

complete-command (M-!)
 Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a command name. Matches against aliases, reserved words, shell functions, shell builtins, and executable filenames, in that order.

possible-command-completions (C-x !)
 List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a command name.

dynamic-complete-history (M-TAB)
 Attempt completion on the text before point, comparing against lines from the history list for possible matches.

dabbrev-expand
 Attempt menu completion on the text before point, comparing against lines from the history list for possible matches.

complete-into-braces (M-{)
 Perform filename completion and insert the list of possible completions enclosed within braces so the list is available to the shell.
