### Miscellaneous

re-read-init-file (C-x C-r)
 Read the contents of the inputrc file and incorporate any bindings or variable assignments found there.

abort (C-g)
 Abort the current editing command and ring the terminal's bell (subject to the bell-style setting).

do-lowercase-version (M-A, M-B, M-x, ...)
 If the metafied character x is uppercase, run the command bound to the corresponding metafied lowercase character. Behavior is undefined if x is already lowercase.

prefix-meta (ESC)
 Metafy the next character typed. ESC f is equivalent to Meta-f.

undo (C-_, C-x C-u)
 Incremental undo, separately remembered for each line.

revert-line (M-r)
 Undo all changes made to this line. Equivalent to executing undo enough times to return the line to its initial state.

tilde-expand (M-&)
 Perform tilde expansion on the current word.

set-mark (C-@, M-<space>)
 Set the mark to the point. If a numeric argument is supplied, the mark is set to that position.

exchange-point-and-mark (C-x C-x)
 Swap the point with the mark. The current cursor position is set to the saved position, and the old cursor position is saved as the mark.

character-search (C-])
 A character is read and point is moved to the next occurrence of that character. A negative argument searches for previous occurrences.

character-search-backward (M-C-])
 A character is read and point is moved to the previous occurrence of that character. A negative argument searches for subsequent occurrences.

skip-csi-sequence
 Read enough characters to consume a multi-key sequence such as those defined for keys like Home and End. Such sequences begin with a Control Sequence Indicator (CSI), usually ESC-[. If this sequence is bound to "\[", keys producing such sequences have no effect unless explicitly bound to a readline command, instead of inserting stray characters into the editing buffer. Unbound by default, but usually bound to ESC-[.

insert-comment (M-#)
 Without a numeric argument, the value of the readline comment-begin variable is inserted at the beginning of the current line. If a numeric argument is supplied, this command acts as a toggle: if the characters at the beginning of the line do not match the value of comment-begin, the value is inserted, otherwise the characters in comment-begin are deleted from the beginning of the line. In either case, the line is accepted as if a newline had been typed. The default value of comment-begin causes this command to make the current line a shell comment. If a numeric argument causes the comment character to be removed, the line will be executed by the shell.

spell-correct-word (C-x s)
 Perform spelling correction on the current word, treating it as a directory or filename, in the same way as the cdspell shell option. Word boundaries are the same as those used by shell-forward-word.

glob-complete-word (M-g)
 The word before point is treated as a pattern for pathname expansion, with an asterisk implicitly appended. This pattern generates a list of matching filenames for possible completions.

glob-expand-word (C-x *)
 The word before point is treated as a pattern for pathname expansion, and the list of matching filenames is inserted, replacing the word. If a numeric argument is supplied, an asterisk is appended before pathname expansion.

glob-list-expansions (C-x g)
 Display the list of expansions that would have been generated by glob-expand-word, and redraw the line. If a numeric argument is supplied, an asterisk is appended before pathname expansion.

dump-functions
 Print all functions and their key bindings to the readline output stream. If a numeric argument is supplied, the output is formatted so it can be made part of an inputrc file.

dump-variables
 Print all settable readline variables and their values to the readline output stream. If a numeric argument is supplied, the output is formatted so it can be made part of an inputrc file.

dump-macros
 Print all readline key sequences bound to macros and the strings they output. If a numeric argument is supplied, the output is formatted so it can be made part of an inputrc file.

display-shell-version (C-x C-v)
 Display version information about the current instance of bash.
