### cd
cd [-L|[-P [-e]] [-@]] [dir]
 Change the current directory to dir.  if dir is not supplied, the value of the HOME shell variable is
 the default.  The variable CDPATH defines the search path for the directory containing dir: each
 directory name in CDPATH is searched for dir.  Alternative directory names in CDPATH are separated by a
 colon (:).  A null directory name in CDPATH is the same as the current directory, i.e., ``.''.  If dir
 begins with a slash (/), then CDPATH is not used. The -P option causes cd to use the physical
 directory structure by resolving symbolic links while traversing dir and before processing instances of
 .. in dir (see also the -P option to the set builtin command); the -L option forces symbolic links to
 be followed by resolving the link after processing instances of .. in dir.  If .. appears in dir, it is
 processed by removing the immediately previous pathname component from dir, back to a slash or the
 beginning of dir. If the -e option is supplied with -P, and the current working directory cannot be
 successfully determined after a successful directory change, cd will return an unsuccessful status.  On
 systems that support it, the -@ option presents the extended attributes associated with a file as a
 directory.  An argument of - is converted to $OLDPWD before the directory change is attempted.  If a
 non-empty directory name from CDPATH is used, or if - is the first argument, and the directory change
 is successful, the absolute pathname of the new working directory is written to the standard output.
 If the directory change is successful, cd sets the value of the PWD environment variable to the new
 directory name, and sets the OLDPWD environment variable to the value of the current working directory
 before the change.  The return value is true if the directory was successfully changed; false
 otherwise.

