### cd
cd [-L|[-P [-e]] [-@]] [dir]

Change the current directory to dir. If dir is not supplied, the value of HOME is the default. CDPATH defines the search path for the directory containing dir: each directory name in CDPATH is searched for dir. Directory names in CDPATH are separated by a colon (:). A null directory name in CDPATH is the same as the current directory. If dir begins with a slash (/), CDPATH is not used.

-P  Use the physical directory structure by resolving symbolic links while traversing dir and before processing instances of .. in dir.

-L  Force symbolic links to be followed by resolving the link after processing instances of .. in dir. If .. appears in dir, it is processed by removing the immediately previous pathname component from dir, back to a slash or the beginning of dir.

-e  When supplied with -P, return an unsuccessful status if the current working directory cannot be successfully determined after a successful directory change.

-@  On systems that support it, present the extended attributes associated with a file as a directory.

An argument of - is converted to $OLDPWD before the directory change is attempted. If a non-empty directory name from CDPATH is used, or if - is the first argument, and the directory change is successful, the absolute pathname of the new working directory is written to standard output.

If the directory change is successful, cd sets PWD to the new directory name and OLDPWD to the previous working directory. The return value is true if the directory was successfully changed; false otherwise.
