<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later -->
### fc
fc [-e ename] [-lnr] [first] [last]
fc -s [pat=rep] [cmd]

The first form selects a range of commands from first to last from the history list and displays or edits and re-executes them. First and last may be specified as a string (to locate the last command beginning with that string) or as a number (an index into the history list, where a negative number is used as an offset from the current command number).

When listing, a first or last of 0 is equivalent to -1 and -0 is equivalent to the current command (usually the fc command); otherwise 0 is equivalent to -1 and -0 is invalid. If last is not specified, it is set to the current command for listing (so that fc -l -10 prints the last 10 commands) and to first otherwise. If first is not specified, it is set to the previous command for editing and -16 for listing.

-n  Suppress command numbers when listing.

-r  Reverse the order of the commands.

-l  List the commands on standard output. Otherwise, the editor given by ename is invoked on a file containing those commands. If ename is not given, the value of FCEDIT is used, then EDITOR. If neither variable is set, vi is used. When editing is complete, the edited commands are echoed and executed.

In the second form, command is re-executed after each instance of pat is replaced by rep. Command is interpreted the same as first. A useful alias to use with this is r="fc -s", so that typing r cc runs the last command beginning with cc and typing r re-executes the last command.

If the first form is used, returns 0 unless an invalid option is encountered or first or last specify history lines out of range. If -e is supplied, the return value is that of the last command executed or failure if an error occurs with the temporary file of commands. If the second form is used, the return status is that of the re-executed command, unless cmd does not specify a valid history line, in which case fc returns failure.
